---
title: "The Shadowhunter World IRL"
---
Cassandra Clare, described as the “Queen of fantasy”  has created an entire science-fictional world in the form of three interconnected series. In this world she has created, there are half human-angel characters, werewolves, warlocks, and faeries. With the different world comes a different kind of English. While the characters still speak English, they have certain phrases and words that are not, and are still for everyday use. For instance, if two people decide to vow to fight side by side, they are calledParabatai. This bond is visible as they have visible tattoos, called runes. This is not the only thing that is shown through runes. There are power runes, such as agility, clarity, and fearlessness.   Although warlocks, fairies, and werewolves are mythical creatures like human-angels, they cannot be marked like them, just like humans - called mundanes - cannot. This is because the half human-angels, Shadowhunters, are part of the Shadow World, while the others are Downworlders. This world that Cassandra Clare has created is a mixture of English and her own creativity.  
 
But what happens when there are normal humans, and together, they combine their creativity? While these series of books take place in the fantasy world, I feel as though it stands as a paragon of how communities develop their own diction over time. They may not be proper words or words that make sense to people outside the community or area, but to the participants and speakers, it is the perfect word to explain an odd feeling or describe an occurrence English does not have the words for.
