---
title: Olive and Pink
---
 
<p>“When did you learn English? Your accent is so good, you must’ve practiced a ton!” I heard for at least the twentieth time since I moved back to the United States. I knew it was an innocent question, but to me, it made my eyes automatically roll back it started to hurt by now. Some of my mixed friends say that is an offensive question and borderline racist, but I wouldn’t go that far. </p>
<p>Sure, I have managed to get “randomly checked” at every single airport that I have gone through, or have my backpack checked and double checked - and for living so far that I need to go through two to three airplanes to get home, that is a lot of airports - but I go as far to call that racist, I’d call it ignorance. I know for a fact if it weren’t for my headscarf, I’d pass as a regular “American,” and wouldn’t be asked something like that unless I mentioned that I was ethnically Palestinian.</p>
<p>“You’re white passing,” my friends confirmed. “Take off the scarf, you’d automatically blend in. It must be hard skipping class, I’m sure professors notice,” they tease, and it’s likely true. What qualifies as “American,” if it isn’t the accent?</p>
<p>I am American. English was my first language, and always be the language that I am strongest at. My parents moved to the United States when, after having three kids, my father decided to attend graduate school in Florida. He already knew English by then, but my mother adapted quickly and learned it upon moving. She told me that she forced herself in situations where she had to speak the language, until eventually, she did. </p>
<p>It was easier for me and my other two siblings. Born American, English is all we knew for a great deal. My parents focused much on teaching us the language that my older siblings - who were born in Palestine and didn’t move to the United States well into their childhood - also became fluent in English. By the time Arabic was incorporated in the household, it was difficult to comprehend which language I felt more in touch with. It was difficult to pinpoint where my identity lied. </p>
<p>Moving back to Palestine was abrupt, so I had to adjust so quickly to Arabic that I grew up to resent it. It was difficult, and I didn’t understand why a simple line over a letter can change the meaning entirely, or why I had to speak in different forms depending on my audience. I often wonder that if people did not take note that I was different so often, that I would blend in just fine. For instance, upon moving to Palestine I was the American girl that needed colloquial Arabic to understand what my grandad was trying to tell me. I also wonder how differently people in public would speak to me if my American accent didn’t stand out like a flashing red light every time I tried to speak Arabic and blend in.</p>
<p>Living as a bilingual is difficult, especially when I have ties to both identities. Since moving back to America for college, though, I noticed how much more I hold onto my Arab identity. I feel the need to tell people that I am Arab, knowing they wondered where I came from in the first place. I believe ignorance on either end, whether that is an Arab making assumptions about my American identity or an American making assumptions about my Arab identity, is what drives me to feel the need to pick one “side,” as though it were that easy. I never noticed how the undertones of people’s skin worked until I realized that in a sea full of white people, my olive skin stands out. My grandmother always teased me, telling me to stop acting like I was made out of pink. Privilege came with my native language, but left with my skin.
It simply isn’t easy to pick a side, especially given that they lied in different areas of my identity. Because both identities is what makes me up, and that is how I intend to keep it.</p>