---
Title: "Can Big Bird Fight Terrorism? Children’s TV as Soft Power"
---

<p>I went to this talk Tuesday evening on a discussion about international education. The speaker, a Professor in SIS conducted a research about Sesame Square, a Nigerian version of Sesame Street, and how it could help children overcome recruitment of the terrorist group Boko Haram and emotional trauma that they face with this group being so prominent in Northwest Nigeria. </p>
<p>The research was interesting because I felt as though it recognized how television can change the perspectives of children - and it showed how they could take advantage of that by bettering the youth. 
Boko Haram is an Islamic extremist group that has a history of kidnapping and recruiting children. The group stems from ignorance and hatred of other groups and religions. </p>
<p>The reason why this is a language log, though, is because of another speaker who was chosen to review the research before the panel to analyze the findings. The first words to the audience were "I am part of a counter-terrorism organization...there are many foes but I am one of the friends." </p>
<p>I want to emphasize her language towards the Professor's research, as well as her attitude and her wording when comparing the research to Nigerian countries to other countries facing terrorism. Here are some points she made and I want to emphasize: </p>
<li>She compared the research made in Nigeria to the research made in Palestine and Israel. She mentioned that the research could not be conducted in Palestine because the children were out of school for a year. I felt as though she ignorant about the situation, especially with her use of language, when describing the trauma Palestinian children go through with Israel. </li>
<li>Her language towards counter-terrorism was problematic due to the fact that she believed that the show should be focused solely in Northwest Nigeria. This insinuates that every child that lived in that area was susceptible to become a terrorist or was most definitely going to be recruited. </li>
<br>I wanted to bring this up because I feel as though her responses and attitude towards terrorism was stereotypical, as she assumed certain things about Islam and terrorism in general. She also completely invalidated the research of the Professor, almost demanding there would be more results in the research. I feel like this epitomizes the general responses people have when stereotyping what terrorism looks like. There is a certain level of obsession with terrorism internationally, and I feel as though there could've been a better conversation of "how could we help these children with our resources." Instead, there was judgment and stereotyping when referring to terrorism. 
