---
title: "How Occupation Resulted into Loss of Identity"
color: "Sort of greyish, but with silky bits like an opossum's marsupium"
---
<p>It has been a pattern through history that through colonialism, a language, and subsequently a culture, is lost. Take the Indian-Americans, for instance, and the notorious quote "kill the Indian, save the man" when forcing American education on American-Indians. This ideology, that to erase a history of culture the first step is to take away the language, is not newfound. This is happening now in the Occupied Territories of Palestine, and we find just as history repeats itself we cannot help but stop and watch the side effects of occupation come into play for the generation that is emerging and the one to come. While language has yet to be visibly attacked, there has been work underway for the schooling system in Palestine, which will drastically change the language that they learn, as well as the culture and history of Palestine. From Lital Levy's "Poetic Trespass: Writing between Hebrew and Arabic in Israel/Palestine," Levy clarifies that the base of the linguistic conflict did not start with the occupation, but rather, the occupation worsened the already-blurred lines between Arabic and Hebrew. There has been an obvious dilemma with language with both parties in the aspect of language. </p>
<p>Historically, and even more so now, Hebrew has been a language that has been forced upon the occupied in order to understand the occupiers, as well as an attempt to reach the same level of opportunities Israelis get on Palestinian land. Learning the language of the occupier is surely not a practice that is unheard of - especially when one's life and safety depends on it. In respect to Palestine, one may receive a letter notifying them that their house is going to be demolished, for instance, but it would be written in Hebrew. The affects occupation has on language need to be explored, as slowly but surely, the culture, language, and identity of Palestinians are running thin, and need to be kept and taught as a form of resilience and stand for human rights. We mustn't stand and watch as history repeats itself, especially since, at this time, there is an on-going debate about how colonialism completely can remove a language from one's tongue. </p>
