

<p>While it has claimed to be tricky, <a href="https://scholar.uwindsor.ca/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1019&context=educationpub
">a data snapshot of school discipline published online by the  U.S Department of Education Office for Civil Rights (2014)</a> could stand alone as justification for restorative justice. It reveals jarring information that, unfortunately, is not shocking to most readers. Black students, while they make up 16% percent of the student population, represent 32-42% of expelled or suspended students. Additionally, they also represent 27% of students that are referred to law-enforcement and 31% that subjected to school-related arrests. This information is relevant to the creation of restorative justice in public schools. These statistics show how dire it is to create an atmosphere in which students are able to learn from their mistakes rather than lose their chances from a mistake made in secondary school. While the argument that the statistics are coincidentally high in the black community, a New York Times article (2015) sheds light on the clear disproportion of punishing students of color. The research mentioned shows that in 132 Southern school districts, black students were suspended at rates five times their representation of the student body. The director of the Council of State Governments Justice Center, Michael Thompson, was also mentioned to say that “blacks are more likely to be suspended or expelled in situations where teachers or school leaders have discretion in determining how to respond to behavior, such as when a student is deemed disrespectful or defiant or violates a dress code.” This shows that school districts clearly need to work on how to redefine unacceptable behavior, and what punishment should look like. </p>
<p>Implementation of restorative justice, though, has proven to be more difficult that one would think. While the Obama administration began to focus on the issue in the start of 2014, allowing for the Education Department’s Office for Civil Rights to research on the issue, it only revealed how complicated the process can be to undo systematic oppression that black students evidently experience. While they believed it was important and a time sensitive matter, it was difficult to shift the narrative considering that during this time, accountability focused on the test scores of students above reducing suspensions. This environment creates pressure on educators, as in this situation - in order for them to maintain their status and job - they would likely rid the students that were misbehaving and performed badly in tests, as that is shown to come hand-in-hand. The New York Times. 2014. </p>