---
title: "The Complexity of The Book"
---
There is a popular line from the Quran, the book of Islam, that resurfaces every once and a while on social media. It is a section of the last verse of the longest chapter of the book, Al-Baqarah, or “The Cow.” From the entirety of verse 286, many use the first part of it as a means of a glimmer of hope, and reassurance from their God. While I do understand, I cannot agree with their interpretation, and nod many others. The verse, in rough translation, beings with “God does not burden a soul beyond its capacity…” This is the part many, in my opinion, forget how amazing this book is. What people translate this into is “God does not burden a soul beyond what it can bear.” As English speakers, the difference seems minimal, as the two terms are synonymous. But what we Arabic speakers - and readers of the Quran - forget is that this book is elaborate in every way and form.
Why is its capacity, and not a burden, and what’s the difference, anyway? Because of a single change in a letter, the letter “ba,” similar to a “B” in the English language is not present in this verse, it now means that the meaning switches from “bear” to “capacity.” Placed in context, one will now understand the verse somewhat the same, but on a much greater scale. The verse as a whole asks for forgiveness if one “forgets or does wrong,” now putting things in a different perspective. Capacity is what one is able to do, and God recognizes it as a burden.
To put simply, because of the absence of one letter in this section, the meaning changed. And to understand the meaning in its entirety, it must be placed in context. With all of this considered, one will understand why to have the capacity or the ability to do something is a burden. It is because now, one must use this for the greater good, which is burdensome especially when it requires active effort to work against one’s evil nature. Now it makes sense that later in the verse it says “God forgive us if we have forgotten or have done wrong,” because the worshipper is asking for forgiveness if they used their capabilities for something that is wrongful.
Here, there is a recognition that is difficult to have resources, for example, because it is easy to use them for yourself, or for reasons that do not help the better side. It takes the effort to use these resources and put them to good use, and it requires us to find these things that we have and see how else it could be used other than self-gain. This simple explanation does not put this elaborate book justice, nor does it capture how complex and detailed Arabic could be. A simple word can capture emotion, tense, and gender simultaneously, and that is what I find deeply fascinating - that so much can fit into such a small word that we often look past it as if it were actually small.


