

<p>As I wear the headscarf, a discussion that is brought up with me often is why I believe in Islam or general questions about my religion, and what purpose it serves me. Most of these conversations, coincidentally, are initiated by non-religious or atheist peers, and the comment I get most often is that they find it hard to believe scriptures are real and credible. How do you know they haven't been messed with? or A divine energy is seemingly unlikely given that there isn't proof of it are things I hear often. While I understand why it is difficult to wrap one's head around, to me, there is absolute proof of a divine energy.  While there are numerous reasons why I believe in Islam, I'd like to emphasize the linguistic aspect of the Quran.</p>
<p>The Quran was revealed through our last prophet, Muhammad. He received the revelation in bits and pieces orally, and it was not written down until he had passed away. Between the time of revelation and actually writing it, the Prophet relayed the verses he learned from God to his followers, and they all memorized it. Upon writing it down, they wrote it exactly as they memorized - with no edits or changes made. It has taken thousands of years to understand the depth of this book, and there has yet to be a full analysis on it, as there's always something new that is found.</p>
<p>A recent lecture I listened to by a linguist analyzed some "linguistic miracles" as he called it. While the linguistic aspect of the Quran is not the only reason I believe in Islam, there are things I do not believe people can make up, and to me, prove there has to be something greater than the human brain, and somethings are so much greater than coincidences. It also proves that Arabic is truly the perfect language that it could be revealed in. Other than the depth that Arabic can get into, there are verses that have palindromes, such as "Declare greatness only for your Lord," that can only be written that exact way in Arabic. </p>
<p>Moreover, another lecturer explains some phenomena, such as the presence of the word "day" in the Quran 365 times. As Muslims, we follow both the solar and lunar calendar, so 365 is for solar, and for lunar, there is a mention of "the people of the cave" who slept for 300 years and "an addition of nine." This means that it was 300 in solar years and 309 in lunar years.</p>
<p>These are just two examples out of endless more. One last one I will mention was the story of the Prophet Joseph. His story could be broken down into 12 parts, in which the turn of events starts with him having a dream and ends with his dream getting interpreted. What I find interesting is that part 1 and 12 correlate as mentioned, 2 and 11 correlate, 3 and 10 correlate, and so on. To me, the miracles that are found in the Quran is enough to understand this couldn't have been written by a human brain. </p>
