---
title: "Education and Language"
---

<p>Another course that I am currently taking, Schools and Society, is related to this course in many ways. Other than the obvious: language and education are intertwined, there is always proof that there is so much that language and education affect adolescents and adults alike. It could unite a people, and similarily but in contrast, completely divide an entire people in half. Language and education repeatedly prove to be the backbone of a community, a culture, or a family. Without the two, there would be no identity. Communication is required to share knowledge - to teach a youth that would soon be the leaders of the next generation.</p>
<p>I started to notice the relationship between the two when the topic of Indian-American boarding schools was brought into the discussion. To step on, and completely erase a culture, colonialists knew the first step was to erase the language. It became impermissible to speak their native language, and it English was soon a language that was forced upon them. When the language was gone, it was easier for them to then erase the culture. Because Indian-Americans lost in touch with their language long ago, erasing culture was that much simpler. While it is heartbreaking to read about in history, one must take away something from this to prevent it from happening again - and that is the fact that staying in touch with one's native tongue is important to keep a culture alive. This is why education in this aspect needs to be promoted, and taken seriously for second-generation immigrants and beyond. Without language, there would be no connection with culture, and without so, the richness of ethnic education would be lost. </p>
